'\" t
.TH "pdf2laser" "1" "2020-03-11" "GNU" "NYC Resistor Tools"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * Define some portability stuff
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.\" http://bugs.debian.org/507673
.\" http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/groff/2009-02/msg00013.html
.\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el       .ds Aq '
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * set default formatting
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * MAIN CONTENT STARTS HERE *
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
pdf2laser \- tool for printing PDF to an Epilog laser cutter over the network
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pdf2laser
.RI [ OPTION "]... [" FILE ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pdf2laser
converts PDF files to postscript via
.B ghostscript
and sends them over the network to an Epilog laser cutter for printing.
In addition to conversation,
.B pdf2laser
will attempt to greedily optimize the vector path of a cut.
While this optimization can be disabled (via
.BR \-O ", " \-\^\-no-optimize )
it should lead to locally faster cuts.
.PP
Laser cuts are composed of two components, the raster and the vector which equates to the cut pass.
You can control what sort of job is being run via the
.B job-mode
option.
The kinds of job are:
.IR VECTOR ", " RASTER ", and " COMBINED .
.SH OPTIONS
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options too.
.SS Generic Program Information
.TP
.B \-\^\-help
Output a usage message and exit.
.TP
.B \-\^\-version
Output the version number of
.B pdf2laser
and exit.
.SS General Options
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\^\-autofocus
Enable auto focus.
.TP
.BI \-n " JOBNAME" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-job=" JOBNAME
Set the display name of the job.
.TP
.BI \-p " ADDRESS" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-printer=" ADDRESS
IP address of the target printer.
.TP
.BI \-P " PRESET" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-preset=" PRESET
Select a preset.
.TP
.BI \-j " MODE" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-job-mode=" MODE
Mode for print job (Combined, Vector, or Raster).
.SS Raster Options
.TP
.BI \-d " DPI" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-dpi=" DPI
Resolution of raster artwork.
.TP
.BI \-m " MODE" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-mode=" MODE
Mode for rasterization (default mono).
.TP
.BI \-r " SPEED" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-raster-speed=" SPEED
Raster speed (0-100).
.TP
.BI \-R " POWER" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-raster-power=" POWER
Raster power (0-100).
.TP
.BI \-s " SIZE" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-screen-size=" SIZE
Photograph screen size (default 8).
.SS Vector Options
.TP
.BR \-O ", " \-\^\-no-optimize
Disable vector optimization.
.TP
.BR \-F ", " \-\^\-no-fallthrough
Disables automatic configuration of unspecified colors.
.TP
.BI \-f " FREQUENCY" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-frequency=" FREQUENCY
Vector frequency (10-5000).
.TP
.BI \-V " POWER" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-vector-power=" COLOR=POWER
Vector power for the color specified (Color=POWER).
.TP
.BI \-v " SPEED" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-vector-speed=" COLOR=SPEED
Vector speed for the color specified (Color=SPEED).
.TP
.BI \-M " PASSES" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-multipass=" COLOR=PASSES
Number of times to repeat the specified color (Color=PASSES) (1 or more).
.SH LASER JOB OPTION DESCRIPTION
Laser cuts are composed of two components, the raster which equates to the etch pass and the vector which equates to the cut pass.
You can control what sort of job is being run via the
.B job-mode
option.
The kinds of job are:
.IR VECTOR ", " RASTER ", and " COMBINED "."
.SS Raster
Raster is controlled by the options:
.IR DPI ", " MODE ", " SPEED ", " POWER ", and " SIZE "."
.PP
.I DPI
is the resolution of your print and is dictated by the
.I DPI
setting of the PDF file.
The
.IR SPEED " and " POWER
settings are just what is on the tin.
Values for the material you are cutting can be found on our wiki.
The
.I MODE
of your raster dictates how the image will be translated.
The three modes are mono, grey, and colour.
.PP
The mono raster mode uses a line or dot screen on any grey levels or colours.
This can be controlled with the
.I SIZE
parameter. The default value of 8 makes a nice fine line screen on 600dpi
engraving. The grey raster mode maps the grey level to power level. The power
level is scaled to the raster power setting.
.PP
In colour mode, the primary and secondary colours are processed as separate
passes, using the grey level of the colour as a power level. The power level
is scaled to the raster power setting as in the grey mode. Note that red is
100% red, and non 100% green and blue, etc, so 50% red, 0% green/blue is not
counted as red, but counts as \*(lqgrey\*(rq. 100% red, and 50% green/blue
counts as red, half power. This means you can make distinct raster areas of
the page so that you do not waste time moving the head over blank space
between them.
.SS Vector
Vector is controlled by the options:
.IR FREQUENCY ", " POWER ", " SPEED ", and " PASSES "."
.PP
The
.IR FREQUENCY ", " POWER ", " SPEED ", and " PASSES
settings take a comma separated list of arguments consisting of
.B Color=Value
pairs (e.g.
.BR ff0000=10,00ff00=20 ")."
These correspond to the
.IR FREQUENCY ", " POWER ", and " SPEED
levels for the RGB color specific by the given color code, and the
number of times to repeat (that is, the
.I PASSES
count) the cut. If your PDF contains a vector color that is not specified by a
flag, you can have it use the values of the last configured vector color via the
.I FALLTHROUGH
flag. There is some non-determinism in vector ordering so you are better off
specifying all of the colors in the file.
.PP
A note about
.IR FREQUENCY ","
which controls the duty cycle of the laser. It can be set from values between
10 and 5000. The higher the value, the more often the laser pulses each second
and how much energy is transferred to the material. A lower frequency, by
merit of transferring less heat to the material, will cause less charring and
require a higher power and lower speed to achieve the same depth of cut. Low
frequencies will produce perforation instead of a continuous cut in thinner
materials like paper.
.SS Presets
.I PRESET
files provide a way to statically set, and reuse cut configurations. A set of
useful material defaults ships with
.B pdf2laser
and more information about the
.I PRESET
format can be found in
.B pdf2laser.preset(5)
.SH EXIT STATUS
In event of success
.B pdf2laser
will return 0 and exit. In event of an error
.B pdf2laser
will print a message to
.BR stderr ", "
return a non-zero value, and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
When running
.B pdf2laser
you'll need to specify the
.I ADDRESS
of the laser cutter you are printing to. It is the only mandatory argument.
Most of the other flags have default values but you will want to specify
.I POWER
for both raster and vector as the defaults do not really help very much.
Most of the time when you use
.B pdf2laser
the command call will look like so.
.RS
.TP
.B pdf2laser "\fR\E\\\fP"
.br
.BI "\-\^\-printer " ADDRESS
\E\
.br
.BI "\-\^\-dpi " DPI
\E\
.br
.BI "\-\^\-raster-power " POWER
\E\
.br
.BI "\-\^\-raster-speed " SPEED
\E\
.br
.BI "\-\^\-frequency " FREQUENCY
\E\
.br
.BI "\-\^\-vector-power " COLOR=POWER
\E\
.br
.BI "\-\^\-vector-speed " COLOR=SPEED
\E\
.br
.BI "\-\^\-multipass " COLOR=PASSES
\E\
.br
.B FILE
.RE
.PP
You can consult our wiki for the values to replace those fields with for the
material you are cutting.
.PP
When cutting and rastering 1/8th inch birch plywood the call would look as such.
.RS
.TP
.B pdf2laser "\fR\E\\\fP"
.br
.BI "\-\^\-printer " 192.168.1.4
\E\
.br
.BI "\-\^\-dpi " 300
\E\
.br
.BI "\-\^\-raster-power " 40
\E\
.br
.BI "\-\^\-raster-speed " 100
\E\
.br
.BI "\-\^\-frequency " 000000=5
\E\
.br
.BI "\-\^\-vector-power " 000000=100
\E\
.br
.BI "\-\^\-vector-speed " 000000=12
\E\
.br
.BI "\-\^\-multipass " 000000=1
\E\
.br
.B design.pdf
.RE
.SH NOTES
Currently if you are at the NYC Resistor space you do not need to specify an
.I ADDRESS
for the laser cutter as it is hard-coded.
.B DO NOT COUNT ON THIS FUNCTIONALITY, IT WILL CHANGE IN THE FUTURE\fR.
In general, I have attempted to translate the previous program verbatim except
where change has been necessary for legal and direct functionality
reasons. The 0.x.x line of
.B pdf2laser
will continue in this vein and when I can I'll backport new functionality to
it. That being said, I have big plans (time permitting) for this tool and that
will involve some fairly large breaking changes to the interface of the
program.
.SH BUGS
Bug reports and issues may be posted on
https://github.com/zellio/pdf2laser/issues
.SH THANKS
Thanks goes to Andrew and Arnold LTD and Brandon Edens for the
.B cups-epilog
driver on which this code is based.
Further thanks goes to Trammel Hudson for converting the
.B cups-epilog
driver into a command line tool. Finally special thanks goes to NYC Resistor
for providing a laser cutter to work with and for being a community that
fosters this kind of work.
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
The authors of the original
.B cups-epilog
driver are Andrews & Arnold LTD. <info@aaisp.net.uk> and AS220 Labs <brandon@as220.org>.
.PP
.B pdf2laser
was converted to a command line tool by Trammell Hudson <hudson@osresearch.net>.
.PP
The current maintainer is Zachary Elliott <contact@zell.io>.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR pdf2laser.preset "(5)"
