'\" t
.TH "pdf2laser.preset" "5" "2020-03-11" "GNU" "NYC Resistor Tools"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * Define some portability stuff
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.\" http://bugs.debian.org/507673
.\" http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/groff/2009-02/msg00013.html
.\" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el       .ds Aq '
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * set default formatting
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.\" * MAIN CONTENT STARTS HERE *
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
pdf2laser.preset -
.B pdf2laser
preset file format
.SH SYNOPSIS
Description of the INI based file format for
.B pdf2laser
preset files.
.SS Preset File Search Path
.PP
.nf
@DATAROOTDIR@/pdf2laser/presets/*
@SYSCONFDIR@/pdf2laser/presets/*
$HOME/.pdf2laser/presets/*
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Preset files define a static configuration for pdf2laser. They allow you to set the various flags for
.B pdf2laser
in a file and reuse them for multiple cuts.
As stated, the files are in an INI format and are comprised of three sections: Preset, Raster, and Vector.
They are described below.
.SH [PRESET] SECTION OPTIONS
The preset file may include at most one [Preset] section, which carries the global configuration options for a print job.
.PP
.I Name=
.RS 4
Name of the preset file.
Used to identify which preset to use on the command line via the
.BR -p ", " --preset " flag."
.RE
.PP
.I Autofocus=
.RS 4
Controls auto-focus of the print job. This honestly does nothing right now.
.RE
.PP
.I Fallthrough=
.RS 4
Controls the Fallthrough setting of the vectors in the print job.
Fallthrough means that
.B pdf2laser
will apply the settings for the last vector configured to any vectors which do not have a configuration.
.RE
.SH [RASTER] SECTION OPTIONS
The preset file may include at most one [Raster] section, which carries the raster settings for a job.
.PP
.I Mode=
.RS 4
Controls the mode of the print's etch. There are three valid values:
.BR mono ", " grey ", and " colour "."
.PP
The
.B mono
raster mode uses a line or dot screen on any grey levels or colours.
This can be controlled with the
.B SIZE
parameter.
The default value of 8 makes a nice fine line screen on 600dpi engraving.
.PP
The
.B grey
raster mode maps the grey level to power level. The power level is scaled to the raster power setting.
.PP
In the
.B colour
mode, the primary and secondary colours are processed as separate passes, using the grey level of the colour as a power level.
The power level is scaled to the raster power setting as in the grey mode.
Note that red is 100% red, and non 100% green and blue, etc, so 50% red, 0% green/blue is not counted as red, but counts as “grey”.
100% red, and 50% green/blue counts as red, half power.
This means you can make distinct raster areas of the page so that you do not waste time moving the head over blank space between them.
.RE
.PP
.I Speed=
.RS 4
Controls how quickly the laser head runs during the etching pass. Valid values are between 0 and 100
.RE
.PP
.I Power=
.RS 4
Controls how powerful the laser is during the etching pass. Valid values are between 0 and 100.
.RE
.PP
.I Resolution=
.RS 4
This controls the
.I DPI
of the etching pass. This should be configured to the DPI of the input PDF file.
Generally speaking, a higher DPI means a cleaner, slower etch with a higher level of detail.
.RE
.PP
.I ScreenSize=
.RS 4
Used to configure the
.B mono
raster mode.
See that section above for more information.
.RE
.SH [VECTOR] SECTION OPTIONS
The preset file may include any number of [Vector] sections, which carry the
vector settings for the print job. Each section
.B MUST
have a different color value.
.PP
.I Color=
.RS 4
Controls which color the rest of the vector settings applies to. This value
.B MUST
be provided as three hex bytes.
(e.g. FF0000 for Red, 00FF00 for Green, &c.)
.RE
.PP
.I Frequency=
.RS 4
Controls the frequency of the laser during the cut pass.
Valid values are between 10 and 5000.
.RE
.PP
.I Speed=
.RS 4
Controls the speed of the laser during the cut pass.
Valid values are between 0 and 100.
.RE
.PP
.I Power=
.RS 4
Controls the power of the laser during the cut pass.
Valid values are between 0 and 100.
.RE
.PP
.I Passes=
.RS 4
Controls the
.BR -M ", " --multipass
flag. Will run a full vector the number of times of this value.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLE
Example preset file for 3mm birch plywood.
.PP
.in +4n
.EX
[Preset]
Name = birch-3mm
Autofocus = false
Fallthrough = True

[Raster]
Mode = grey
Speed = 100
Power = 40
Resolution = 600
ScreenSize = 8

[Vector]
Color = 000000
Frequency = 50
Speed = 15
Power = 100
Multipass = 1
.EE
.SH BUGS
Bug reports and issues may be posted on
https://github.com/zellio/pdf2laser/issues
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
Originally written by Zachary Elliott <contact@zell.io>.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR pdf2laser "(1)"
